[CTOR-266] [Doc-SC] Canopsis - Enhancements (#3071)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-23.10/integrations/data-analytics/sc-canopsis-events.md

23.04, 23.10 and 24.04.

## Installation

Perform the installation on the server that will send data to Canopsis (central server, 
remote server, poller).

1. Login as `root` on the Centreon central server using your favorite SSH client.

2. Run the following command:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian_11">

```shell
apt install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuring Canopsis

You will need to configure your Canopsis host to receive data from Centreon. Refer to the 
[Canopsis user guide](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/)
, in particular check if creation, reading and deletion rights are activated. See the following documentations: 
* [rights administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/) 

> * [planification administration] (https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/planification/) (in case of downtimes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [planification administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/planification/) (in case of downtimes). 
```

> in case of downtimes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**[this documentation](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-stream-connector-scripts/blob/master/modules/docs/templating.md#templating-documentation)**.

## Curl commands: testing the stream connector

### Configuration of the stream connector

If you want to test that the configuration commands are sent to Canopsis correctly, use the following curl commands.

#### Request pbehavior-reasons route

This command checks that the **pbehavior-reasons** route is accessible and returns the values for the **Reason** field for the downtimes. This allows you to check that the name of the **Reason** field for Centreon downtimes exists (the default value is **Centreon_downtime**).

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command (replace with you own values):

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehavior_reasons>'
```

> Replace the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host.

> > Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehavior_reasons:/api/v4/pbehavior-reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default values defined in the connector are **443** for **canopsis_port** and **/api/v4/pbehavior-reasons** for **canopsis_pbehavior_reasons**.
```

3. Check if the command returns a data structure of this form:
```json
   "data":[
      {
         "_id":"XXXX",
         "name":"NAME",
         "description":"DESCRIPTION"
      }
   ]
```

#### Request pbehavior-types route

This command checks that the **pbehavior-types** route is accessible and returns the possible IDs for the **Types** of downtimes. This allows you to check that the name of the **Type** field for Centreon downtimes exists (the default value is **Default maintenance**).

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehavior_types>'
```

> Replace the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host.

> > Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehavior_types:/api/v4/pbehavior-types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default values defined in the connector are **443** for **canopsis_port** and **/api/v4/pbehavior-types** for **canopsis_pbehavior_types**.
```

         "_id":"5ea9d2d8-0f16-4e19-bcca-64b1e96e00fa",
         "name":"Default maintenance",
         "description":"Default maintenance",
         "type":"maintenance",
         "priority":3,
         "icon_name":"build",
         "color":"#BF360C"
      },
      {
         "_id":"1fb65097-ddaa-4e99-9239-8263095c156c",
         "name":"Default pause",
         "description":"Default pause",
         "type":"pause",
         "priority":4,
         "icon_name":"pause",
         "color":"#5A6D80"
      }
   ]
```
> With the default values of the Canopsis connector, downtimes have the "Default maintenance" type.

#### Request app-info route

This command checks that the **app-info** route is accessible and returns information about the Canopsis host.

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port>/api/v4/app-info'
```

> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host.

> > Default value defined in the connector is canopsis_port:443.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default value defined in the connector for **canopsis_port** is **443**.
```

3. This command only allows access to the Canopsis version so no need to inspect all the returned content of it.

### Sending events

If you want to test that events are sent to Canopsis correctly:

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'content-length: 400' -H 'content-type: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_event_route>' -d '[{"hostgroups":[],"component":"Test-Canopsis","host_id":"8","event_type":"check","resource":"passif","output":"Test_passif_output","servicegroups":[],"connector":"centreon-stream","source_type":"resource","action_url":"","long_output":"Test-curl-command Passif long output","notes_url":"","connector_name":"Central","timestamp":1710843117,"service_id":"10","state":1}]'
```

> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host. 

> > Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_event_route:/api/v4/event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default values defined in the connector are **443** for **canopsis_port** and **/api/v4/event** for **canopsis_event_route**.
```

3. Check that the event has been received by Canopsis. The status should appear in the **Alarms > In progress** page of Canopsis.

![image](../../assets/integrations/data-analytics/status.png)

### Sending downtimes

If you want to test that downtimes are sent to Canopsis correctly:

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'content-length: 400' -H 'content-type: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehaviors>' -d '{"tstart":1713959323,"enabled":true,"type":"5ea9d2d8-0f16-4e19-bcca-64b1e96e00fa","tstop":1713960043,"author":"admin","entity_pattern":[[{"field":"name","cond":{"value":"Test-Service-Demo-Canopsis/Test-Demo-Canopsis","type":"eq"}}]],"rrule":"","reason":"3010f2a3-f43c-421a-8c7c-e70522f0c862","name":"centreon-downtime-1-1713959345","_id":"centreon-downtime-1-1713959345"}'
```

> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host. 

> > Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehaviors:/api/v4/pbehaviors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Default values defined in the connector are **443** for **canopsis_port** and **/api/v4/pbehaviors** for **canopsis_pbehaviors**.
```

remote server, poller).

1. Login as `root` on the Centreon central server using your favorite SSH client.

2. Run the following command:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian_11">

```shell
apt install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuring Canopsis

You will need to configure your Canopsis to receive data from Centreon. Refer to the 
[Canopsis user guide](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/)
, in particular check if creation, reading and deletion rights are activated (see documentation dedicated 
[rights administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/) and this one 
[planification administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/planification/) 
in case of downtimes). 

> For the associated user at the "authKey" you must modify the "Mandatory" rights matrix:

Author: Il faut bien se mettre sur l'utilisateur dont on utilise le token pour modifier les droits (par ex si on utilise le token de l'utilisateur toto il faut changer les droits dans l'interface Canopsis de l'utilisateur toto et pas d'admin)

> For the 3 sections :
> 

> > droits API > PBehavior > PBehaviors

Author: C'était pour indiquer le chemin de page les ">"

> > droits API > PBehavior > PBehaviors

Reviewer: non je veux dire ceux en début de ligne

| string | canopsis_authkey | The Canopsis API authentification key | `an_authkey` |
| string | canopsis_host    | Canopsis host address                 | `a host`     |

6. Fill in any optional parameters you want (using the **+Add a new entry** link):

| Type   | Name              | Value explanation                          | default value                                      |
| ------ | ----------------- |--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| string | logfile           | The file in which logs are written         | /var/log/centreon-broker/canopsis-events-apiv2.log |
| number | log_level         | Logging level from 1 (errors) to 3 (debug) | 1                                                  |

7. Use the stream connector's optional parameters to [filter or adapt the data you want 
Centreon to send to Canopsis](#filtering-or-adapting-the-data-you-want-to-send-to-canopsis).
8. [Deploy the configuration](../../monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration.md).
9. Restart **centengine** on all pollers:

   ```shell
   systemctl restart centengine
   ```

   Canopsis should now receive data from Centreon.

> <div id='filtering-or-adapting-the-data-you-want-to-send-to-canopsis'/>

Author: Je l'ai rajouté pour que le lien au dessus ligne 121 fonctionne:
`Centreon to send to Canopsis](#filtering-or-adapting-the-data-you-want-to-send-to-canopsis).`

> <div id='filtering-or-adapting-the-data-you-want-to-send-to-canopsis'/>

Reviewer: c'est pas la méthode correcte pour faire dess liens. un lien "ancre" devrait marcher

| number | canopsis_sort_list_hostgroups    | 0                                           |
| string | canopsis_sort_list_servicegroups | 0                                           |
| string | connector                        | centreon-stream                             |
| string | connector_name                   | centreon-stream-central                     |
| string | connector_name_type              | poller                                      |
| string | sending_method                   | api                                         |
| string | sending_protocol                 | https                                       |
| string | use_severity_as_state            | 0                                           |

## Event bulking

This stream connector is compatible with event bulking. Meaning that it is able to send 
more than one event in each call to the Canopsis REST API.

To use this feature you must add the following parameter in your stream connector 
configuration.

| Type   | Name            | Value example |
| ------ | --------------- |---------------|
| number | max_buffer_size | `3`           |

> In this value example, the stream connector Canopsis keeps 3 events and start sending

Author: C'est plus qu'envoyer 4 événéments d'un seul coup, c'est qu'il ne va surtout rien envoyer tant qu'il n'en a pas 4 dans sa queue (c'était formulé maladroitement mais la notion est importante pour pas que l'utilisateur pense qu'il y a un problème)

      "connector":"centreon-stream",
      "author":"admin",
      "state":1,
      "output":"Acknowledged by admin",
      "source_type":"resource",
      "long_output":"Acknowledged by admin",
      "connector_name":"Central",
      "timestamp":1709052753,
      "resource":"passif"
   }
]
```

### Custom event format

This stream connector allows you to change the format of the event to suit your needs. 
It allows you to handle events type that are not handled by default such as 
**ba_status events**.

In order to use this feature you need to configure a json event format file and add 
a new stream connector parameter.

| Type   | Name        | Value                                           |
| ------ |-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| string | format_file | /etc/centreon-broker/canopsis-events-format.json|

> The event format configuration file must be readable by the centreon-broker user

To learn more about custom event format and templating file, head over the following
**[documentation](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-stream-connector-scripts/blob/master/modules/docs/templating.md#templating-documentation)** dédiée.

> ## Curl commands: testing the stream connector

Reviewer: you need to explain what the first 3 commands do

server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehavior-reasons>'
```

> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct value for authentification and Canopsis host. 
> For others, their default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehavior-reasons:/api/v4/pbehavior-reasons

3. Check if command returns a data structure of this form:
```json
   "data":[
      {
         "_id":"XXXX",
         "name":"NAME",
         "description":"DESCRIPTION"
      }
   ]
```

#### Request pbehavior-types route
1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehavior-types>'
```

> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct value for authentification and Canopsis host. 

> > For others, their default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehavior-types:/api/v4/pbehavior-types

Reviewer: Unclear: use an example

> 3. Check if command returns a data structure of this form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check if the command returns a data structure of this form:
```

```json
"data":[
      {
         "_id":"ec35c069-1651-4ee1-8944-3e5574e7b516",
         "name":"Default active",
         "description":"Default active",
         "type":"active",
         "priority":2,
         "icon_name":"",
         "color":"#2FAB63"
      },
      {
         "_id":"470c469c-77bc-402c-910f-30a8b2584343",
         "name":"Default inactive",
         "description":"Default inactive",
         "type":"inactive",
         "priority":1,
         "icon_name":"brightness_3",
         "color":"#979797"
      },
      {
         "_id":"5ea9d2d8-0f16-4e19-bcca-64b1e96e00fa",
         "name":"Default maintenance",
         "description":"Default maintenance",
         "type":"maintenance",
         "priority":3,
         "icon_name":"build",
         "color":"#BF360C"
      },
      {
         "_id":"1fb65097-ddaa-4e99-9239-8263095c156c",
         "name":"Default pause",
         "description":"Default pause",
         "type":"pause",
         "priority":4,
         "icon_name":"pause",
         "color":"#5A6D80"
      }
   ]
```

> > With default values of the Canopsis connector, it classifies the downtimes in Default maintenance type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> With the default values of the Canopsis connector, downtimes have the Default maintenance type.
```

Reviewer: the Default maintenance type? quotes?

#### Request app-info route
1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X GET -H 'accept: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port>/api/v4/app-info'
```

> > Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct value for authentification and Canopsis host. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host.
```

> > For canopsis port the default value defined in the connector is canopsis_port:443

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For canopsis_port, the default value defined in the connector is canopsis_port:443.
```

> 3. This command only allows access to the Canopsis version so no need to inspect all the returned content of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command only returns the version of Canopsis.
```

Author: La commande retourne pleins d'autres champs donc est-ce qu'une formilation comme ça va mieux ?
`This command is only use to returns the version of Canopsis even if contains a lot of other things.`

### Sending events

If you want to test that events are sent to Canopsis correctly:

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'content-length: 400' -H 'content-type: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_event_route>' -d '[{"hostgroups":[],"component":"Test-Canopsis","host_id":"8","event_type":"check","resource":"passif","output":"Test_passif_output","servicegroups":[],"connector":"centreon-stream","source_type":"resource","action_url":"","long_output":"Test-curl-command Passif long output","notes_url":"","connector_name":"Central","timestamp":1710843117,"service_id":"10","state":1}]'
```

> > Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct value for authentification and Canopsis host. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host. 
```

> > For others, their default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_event_route:/api/v4/event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_event_route:/api/v4/event.
```

> 3. Check that the event has been received by Canopsis. Status arrived in page Canopsis Alarms > In progress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that the event has been received by Canopsis. The status should appear in the **Alarms > In progress** page of Canopsis.
```

![image](../../assets/integrations/data-analytics/status.png)

### Sending downtimes

If you want to test that downtimes are sent to Canopsis correctly:

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).
2. Run the following command:

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'content-length: 400' -H 'content-type: application/json' -H 'x-canopsis-authkey: <canopsis-auth-token>' '<https_canopsis_host_url>:<canopsis_port><canopsis_pbehaviors>' -d '{"tstart":1713959323,"enabled":true,"type":"5ea9d2d8-0f16-4e19-bcca-64b1e96e00fa","tstop":1713960043,"author":"admin","entity_pattern":[[{"field":"name","cond":{"value":"Test-Service-Demo-Canopsis/Test-Demo-Canopsis","type":"eq"}}]],"rrule":"","reason":"3010f2a3-f43c-421a-8c7c-e70522f0c862","name":"centreon-downtime-1-1713959345","_id":"centreon-downtime-1-1713959345"}'
```

> > Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct value for authentification and Canopsis host. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Replace all the *`<xxxx>`* inside the above command with the correct values for authentication to the Canopsis host. 
```

> > For others, their default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehaviors:/api/v4/pbehaviors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Default values defined in the connector are canopsis_port:443 and canopsis_pbehaviors:/api/v4/pbehaviors.
```

> 3. Check that the event has been received by Canopsis. Downtimes arrived in page Administration > Tags gestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that the event has been received by Canopsis: the downtimes should appear in the **Administration > Tags gestion** page of Canopsis.
```

> ici je n'ai pas pu faire de capture d'écran... ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```shell
dnf install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian_11">

```shell
apt install centreon-stream-connector-canopsis
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuring Canopsis

You will need to configure your Canopsis instance to receive data from Centreon. Refer to the 
[Canopsis user guide](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/)
, in particular check if creation, reading and deletion rights are activated. See the following documentations: 
* [rights administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/droits/) 
* [planification administration](https://doc.canopsis.net/guide-utilisation/menu-administration/planification/) (in case of downtimes). 
For the user associated to the **Authentication key** you must modify the rights matrix on the Canopsis **Administration > Rights** page, **API** tab. 
You need to check at least the box listed in this table:

> | Section   | Subsection            | Minimum box to check                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Section   | Subsection            | Boxes to check                      |
```

| string | sending_method                   | Sending method (only API is available at this moment)                                                                                                                         | api                                                 | api                                                          |
| string | sending_protocol                 | Sending protocol use (can be https or http)                                                                                                                                   | https                                               | http ou https                                                |
| number | use_severity_as_state            | Activate (1) convert the severity as state                                                                                                                                    | 0                                                   | 0 ou 1                                                       |

## Event bulking

> This stream connector is **not** compatible with event bulking at this moment. Meaning that it is **not** able to send 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stream connector is not compatible with event bulking at this moment. Meaning that it is not able to send 
```

more than one event in each call to the Canopsis REST API.

## Event format

This stream connector will send events with the following format.

> ### Output example for service_status event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Output example for service_status events
```

```json
[
	{
		"action_url": "",
		"component": "Host-name",
		"connector": "centreon-stream",
		"connector_name": "Central",
		"event_type": "check",
		"host_id": "15",
		"hostgroups": [
			"Group 1",
			"Group 2"
		],
		"long_output": "Plugin's long output",
		"notes_url": "",
		"output": "Plugin's output",
		"resource": "Service-name",
		"service_id": "47",
		"servicegroups": [],
		"source_type": "resource",
		"state": 1,
		"timestamp": 1708693347
	}
]
```

> ### Output example for host_status event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Output example for host_status events
```

```json
[
	{
		"action_url": "",
		"component": "Host-1",
		"connector": "centreon-stream",
		"connector_name": "Central",
		"event_type": "check",
		"host_id": "15",
		"hostgroups": [
			"Group 1",
			"Group 2"
		],
		"long_output": "OK: Host is OK",
		"notes_url": "",
		"output": "OK: Host is OK",
		"source_type": "component",
		"state": 0,
		"timestamp": 1708953238
	}
]
```

> ### Output example for acknowledgement event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Output example for acknowledgement events
```

```json
[
	{
		"author": "admin",
		"component": "Host-1",
		"connector": "centreon-stream",
		"connector_name": "Central",
		"event_type": "ack",
		"long_output": "Acknowledged by admin",
		"output": "Acknowledged by admin",
		"resource": "passif",
		"source_type": "resource",
		"state": 1,
		"timestamp": 1709052753
	}
]
```

> ### Output example for downtime event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Output example for downtime events
```

```json
[
	{
		"_id": "centreon-downtime-8-1715607730",
		"author": "admin",
		"enabled": true,
		"entity_pattern": [
			[
				{
					"field": "name",
					"cond": {
						"type": "eq",
						"value": "Test-Service-Demo-Canopsis/Test-Demo-Canopsis"
					}
				}
			]
		],
		"name": "centreon-downtime-8-1715607730",
		"reason": "XXXX",
		"rrule": "",
		"tstart": 1715607718,
		"tstop": 1715607958,
		"type": "XXXX"
	}
]
```

> * Note: In version 22.10 of Canopsis there is also a color field.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Note: In version 22.10 of Canopsis there is also a "color" field.
```

### Custom event format

This stream connector allows you to change the format of the event to suit your needs. 

> It allows you to handle events type that are not handled by default such as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows you to handle event types that are not handled by default such as 
```

| Type   | Name        | Value                                           |
| ------ |-------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| string | format_file | /etc/centreon-broker/canopsis-events-format.json|

> The event format configuration file must be readable by the **centreon-broker** user.

To learn more about custom event formats and templating files, read
**[this documentation](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-stream-connector-scripts/blob/master/modules/docs/templating.md#templating-documentation)**.

## Curl commands: testing the stream connector

### Configuration of the stream connector

If you want to test that the configuration commands are sent to Canopsis correctly, use the following curl commands.

#### Request pbehavior-reasons route

This command checks that the **pbehavior-reasons** route is accessible and returns the values for the **Reason** field for the downtimes. This allows you to check that the name of the **Reason** field for Centreon downtimes exists (the default value is **Centreon_downtime**).

1. Log in to the server that you configured to send events to Canopsis (your central 
server, a remote server or a poller).

> 2. Run the following command (replace with you own values):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command (replace with your own values):
```
